---
title: "Learning the value of Eco-Labels:"
subtitle: "The role of information in sustainable decisions"
authors: Alejandro Hirmas & Jan Engelmann
date: 2022-01-01
year: 2022
doi: "../../uploads/JMP.pdf"
---

In this study we analyze the behavior of consumers regarding purchasing decisions in the presence of eco-labels. Consumers currently face multiple comparative rating systems when making decisions (e.g. three-/five-star quality ratings). Our study compares the consumers behavior when facing both quality and sustainability ratings. We also explore the consumers’ capacity to adapt to changes in such ratings. Recent evidence from the changes to the energy rating systems in the European union suggest that consumers have difficulties adapting to these changes in labeling systems (Faure et al., 2021). In an incentivized experiment, we ask participants to make multiple decisions between two products depending on their attributes (price, quality and sustainability). Quality and sustainability are presented as comparative ratings. In the middle of the experiment, we present the participants with additional information regarding the underlying values of the quality and sustainability ratings. In a between-subjects design, we modify the type of information received about sustainability. Namely, we decrease the relative value of one of the ratings for either Sustainability or Quality. We elicit beliefs about the values for each rating before providing this information and at the end of the experiment. Additionally, we use mouse-tracking to assess how long participants focus on the different attributes, which reflects the attention allocated to the different attributes. Our results, before the information treatment, show that participants believe both quality and sustainability ratings to have a linear representation. Participants show diminishing returns for both quality and sustainability ratings when deciding between items. We also find a strong correlation between attention to an attribute (measured as total time looking at said attribute on a trial) and the weight allocated to it in the decision. Finally, we find that participants adapt their behavior differently depending on the additional information about the ratings. Namely, by lowering the values of mid-quality ratings, participants focus more on high-quality products. When we lower the value of mid-sustainability ratings, participants shift both towards low-quality and high-quality ratings. We provide an incentivized experimental setting to evaluate consumers’ behavior regarding sustainability ratings. We find that if a global sustainability label is implemented, policy makers need to account for the linear beliefs of consumers (and concavity in willingness to pay). Moreover, our results suggest that in case of changes to the ratings, consumers will adjust differently to new labelling systems.